Create documentation about upgrade (#170)
kyma-project/control-plane: docs/kyma-environment-broker/03-10-orchestration.md

---
title: Orchestration
type: Details
---

Orchestration is a mechanism that allows you to upgrade Kyma Runtimes. To create an orchestration, [send the upgrade request to the proper KEB handler](#tutorials-upgrade-kyma-runtime-using-keb). After sending the request, the orchestration is processed by `KymaUpgradeManager`. It lists Shoots (Kyma Runtimes) in the Gardener cluster and filters the Runtime IDs that you have specified for the upgrade in the request body. Then, the `KymaUpgradeManager` proceeds with the orchestration and performs the [upgrade steps](#details-runtime-operations) logic on the Runtimes that you have specified.

>**NOTE:** You need a token with the `broker-upgrade:write` authorization scope to create an orchestration, and a token with the `broker-upgrade:read` scope to fetch the orchestrations.

>**NOTE:** For now, you can upgrade only one Runtime in a single request in KEB.

To check the status of the orchestration, use one of the `GET` endpoints.

> Use Swagger to [check how to consume the Kyma Orchestration API](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/kempski/kyma-orchestration_api/0.1).

Reviewer: I'd consider describing the API in more detail in this doc.

Author: imo we can - list our API's endpoints and briefly describe them, and then we can link to the Swagger for more details.

Reviewer: I like this idea 🚀

---
title: Orchestration
type: Details
---

> Orchestration is an abstraction that allows you to aggregate Kyma and cluster upgrades. To create an orchestration, [send a request to the proper KEB handler](#tutorials-upgrade-kyma-runtime-using-keb).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orchestration is a mechanism that allows you to upgrade Kyma Runtimes. 

To create an orchestration, [send a request to the proper KEB handler](#tutorials-upgrade-kyma-runtime-using-keb).
```

> After sending the request, the orchestration is processed by KymaUpgradeManager which resolves Shoots in the Gardener cluster and filters them using input provided in the request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After sending the request, the orchestration is processed by `KymaUpgradeManager` which lists Shoots (Kyma Runtimes) in the Gardener cluster and filters the Runtime IDs that you have specified for the upgrade in the request body.
```

Reviewer: Please combine this section with the previous sentence.

> When Orchestration knows its targets, it starts to process them in a separate queue as the Upgrade Operation using the steps logic. 

Author: I paraphrased that sentence

> When Orchestration knows its targets, it starts to process them in a separate queue as the Upgrade Operation leveraging the [upgrade steps](#details-runtime-operations) logic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, the `KymaUpgradeManager` proceeds with the orchestration and performs the [upgrade steps](#details-runtime-operations) logic on the Runtimes that you have specified. 
```

Reviewer: We can also mention here that for now, we can upgrade only one Runtime per request.

> Orchestration is a mechanism that allows you to upgrade Kyma Runtimes. To create an orchestration, [send the upgrade request to the proper KEB handler](#tutorials-upgrade-kyma-runtime-using-keb). After sending the request, the orchestration is processed by `KymaUpgradeManager`. It lists Shoots (Kyma Runtimes) in the Gardener cluster and filters the Runtime IDs that you have specified for the upgrade in the request body. Then, the `KymaUpgradeManager` proceeds with the orchestration and performs the [upgrade steps](#details-runtime-operations) logic on the Runtimes that you have specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Orchestration is a mechanism that allows you to upgrade Kyma Runtimes. To create an orchestration, [send the upgrade request to the proper KEB handler](#tutorials-upgrade-kyma-runtime-using-keb). After sending the request, the orchestration is processed by `KymaUpgradeManager`. It lists Shoots (Kyma Runtimes) in the Gardener cluster and filters the Runtime IDs that you have specified in the request body. Then, `KymaUpgradeManager` performs the [upgrade steps](#details-runtime-operations) logic on the Runtimes that you have specified.
```

> You can check the status of the Orchestration and its operations using one of the `GET` endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check the status of the orchestration, use one of the `GET` endpoints.
```

> >**NOTE:** For now only Kyma upgrade is supported

Author: we'll support also cluster upgrades in the future

> >**NOTE:** For now only Kyma upgrade is supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: I'd avoid promising something that is not yet implemented. Let's add info on other upgrade options when they will actually be available.

> >**NOTE:** For now, you can upgrade only one Runtime in a single request in KEB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** For now, you can upgrade only one Runtime in a single request.
```

> To create an Orchestrations, use a token with the `broker-upgrade:write` authorization scope. To fetch Orchestrations, use the `broker-upgrade:read` scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** You need a token with the `broker-upgrade:write` authorization scope to create an orchestration, and a token with the `broker-upgrade:read` scope to fetch the orchestrations.
```

Reviewer: I'd move this sentence as NOTE under this sentence:

```After sending the request, the orchestration is processed by `KymaUpgradeManager` which lists Shoots (Kyma Runtimes) in the Gardener cluster and filters the Runtime IDs that you have specified for the upgrade in the request body.```

> Use the Swagger to [check how to consume the Kyma Orchestration API](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/kempski/kyma-orchestration_api/0.1).

Reviewer: Move this sentence under this sentence:

`To check the status of the orchestration, use one of the `GET` endpoints.`

> - **GET** `/orchestrations/{orchestration_id}` - exposes data about all the orchestrations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **GET** `/orchestrations/{orchestration_id}` - exposes data about all orchestrations.
```

> - **POST** `/upgrade/kyma` - schedules the orchestration of the Kyma upgrade. Requires specifying a request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **POST** `/upgrade/kyma` - schedules the orchestration. It requires specifying a request body.
```

Reviewer: I would also unify the formatting of these endpoints 🤔

> For more details about API check the [Swagger schema](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/kempski/kyma-orchestration_api/0.1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details about the API, check the [Swagger schema](https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/kempski/kyma-orchestration_api/0.1).
```
